CMierez

medium

# No Validity, Staleness nor Sequencer Uptime checks on Oracle's PriceFeed consumption

## Summary

In `PriceOracle`, both when setting and consuming form an Aggregator, the `latestRoundData()` is fetched, but the only check that is performed is the price being greater than zero. 

As per Chainlink docs, there are many other sanity checks that should be performed in order to ensure the data is valid and not stale, as well as special consideration that needs to be taken for the use of PriceFeeds on L2 chains, such as Arbitrum and Optimism.

The sponsor indicated that external protocol integration failure compromising the protocol's functionality is "Not Acceptable", and thus current usage of Price Feeds can lead to undesired behaviour that could end up in users' funds being lost in unfair or invalid conditions. 

> Reference: 
> - Chainlink Docs - Historical Data https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/historical-data
> - Chainlink Docs - Using Data Feeds https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/using-data-feeds
> - Chainlink Docs - L2 Sequencer Uptime Feeds https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/l2-sequencer-feeds

## Vulnerability Detail

Both `PriceOracle#_setAggregators()` and `PriceOracle#getPriceFromChainlink()` functions make an external call to the `registry`'s `latestRoundData()` function, but from the data returned, the only check that is performed is the `price` being greater than zero for it to be considered valid. Other important checks like round completeness and staleness are not done.

Given unexpected conditions, Chainlink oracles' reliability could be compromised and end up with invalid or stale data, as a result of issues on the nodes network, congestion, or any vulnerability that could be exploited on Chainlink's side. IronBank relies entirely on Chainlink without the use of any other backup oracle or alternative logic, so it is tightly coupled to Chainlink's conditions.

In the case where any of these conditions is reached, the IronBank protocol will continue consuming the stale data and allowing undesired behaviour as mentioned below in the [Impact](#impact) section.

Additionally, IronBank is being deployed in both Arbitrum and Optimism, and the current usage of Chainlink's Price Feeds does not follow Chainlink's recommendations for L2 deployments, as the data returned by the Price Feeds is not guaranteed to be accurate in the event of an L2 Sequencer outage. More below in the [Impact](#impact) section.

## Impact

Internal Functions that rely on `PriceOracle#getPrice()`:
- `IronBank#_getLiquidationSeizeAmount()` 
  - Used by `IronBank#liquidate()`
- `IronBank#_getAccountLiquidity()` 
  - Used by `IronBank#borrow()`, `IronBank#redeem()`, `IronBank#transferIBToken()`
- `IronBank#_isLiquidatable()` 
  - Used by `IronBank#liquidate()`

This means that if the price returned by the aggregator is not valid  or stale, the protocol can be abused by users to liquidate accounts that should not be liquidated, or borrow funds based on wrong collateral valuation, etc.

As for the L2 Sequencer downtime, there are two situations of note that can be mentioned: 
- When the Sequencer comes back online and prices are updated on the Oracle, a potentially big price movement could cause users to immediately be in an under-collateralized state that will likely get liquidated by bots. Users would not have had the chance to react to real market conditions while the Sequencer was down, and would be unfairly liquidated.
- Arbitrum has the Delayed Inbox mechanism, and Optimism has the Canonical Transaction chain, which are different mechanisms that allow transactions to be sent from L1 to L2, and are always executed first as soon as the Sequencer is back online. This behaviour is not trivial knowledge for the average user, so it can't be expected that market participants make use of these features to protect their positions. If anything, it is yet another vector from which actors could instantly liquidate other users without letting them have a chance to react.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L67-L68

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

I would advise having a different contract for L2 deployments such as Arbitrum and Optimism, in which an additional address is stored in `PriceOracle` with the corresponding [SequencerUptimeFeed](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/l2-sequencer-feeds) of the network, and include additional logic whenever a price is checked to ensure that the sequencer is not down. This would prevent users interacting directly through the L1 contracts to be able to perform protocol actions such as Liquidations when conditions are not fair for all users. 
- Adding some "Grace Period" logic that prevents certain protocol actions such as liquidations from going through could protect the users from this unfair condition. Chainlink's L2 Sequencer is updated using this L1 to L2 process so it is guaranteed to execute first, thus allowing IronBank to react in time.

As for the sanity checks agnostic to the deployment chain, I would advise to implement the following checks on `PriceOracle#getPriceFromChainlink()`:
- Check that `roundId` returned is not zero.
- Check that `updatedAt` returned is not zero and it is less than or equal to the current `block.timestamp`.
- Set a `staleness` threshold, and check that `updatedAt` is within the established threshold. Keep in mind that each price feed can have different [heartbeats](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/historical-data) so the staleness should be set for each asset and consider its specific amount.

The objective of these recommendations is to limit the situations in which stale or invalid data is consumed by the protocol, favouring a state where the protocol is not functional but protecting the funds that are locked in it, instead of allowing behaviour that could lead to users losing their funds in unfair conditions.
