BenRai

medium

# If a token's oracle goes down or price falls to zero, liquidations will be frozen

## Summary
In some extreme cases, oracles can be taken offline or token prices can fall to zero. In these cases, liquidations will be frozen (all calls will revert) for any user who entered the market of this token. This is especially critical since times when such extreme cases happen may be some of the most important times to allow liquidations to retain the solvency of the protocol.

## Vulnerability Detail
In the past Chainlink has taken oracles offline under extreme circumstances. For example, during the UST collapse, Chainlink paused the UST/ETH price oracle, to ensure that it wasn't providing inaccurate data to protocols.

In such a situation (or one in which the token's value falls to zero), all liquidations for users holding the frozen asset would revert. This is because any call to `IronBank.liquidate()` calls `IronBank._isLiquidatable`. This function goes through all markets a user has entered and calls `priceOracle.getPrice()` for each asset. This function calls `priceOracle.getPriceFormChainlink`. This function reverts if the price is 0 or not returned at all. That means that no user who entered the market of the asset of the paused oracle can be liquidated since the protocol can not determine if the user is solvent or not.  

Although there are ways this could be manually fixed with fake oracles, by definition this happening would represent a cataclysmic time where liquidations need to be happening promptly to avoid the protocol falling into insolvency.

## Impact

If this happens liquidations may not be possible and as a result the value of user's asset may fall below their debts. This would turn off any liquidation incentive and pushing the protocol into insolvency.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/pool/IronBank.sol#L499

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/pool/IronBank.sol#L1079

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L51

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L68


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Ensure there is a safeguard in place to protect against this possibility.
