3agle

medium

# Potential Denial-of-Service Exploit through Chainlink Price Feed Calls

## Summary
- The PriceOracle contract utilizes Chainlink's latestRoundData function to retrieve price data. 
- However, the lack of error handling in the code could lead to potential denial of service scenarios if the call to the price feed fails. 
## Vulnerability Detail
- The `getPriceFromChainlink` function in the `PriceOracle.sol` contract contains a potential denial of service vulnerability when querying Chainlink price feeds. 
- This vulnerability stems from the fact that the call to `latestRoundData` can potentially revert, making it impossible to retrieve prices. 
- Chainlink's multisig administrators have the capability to block access to price feeds, which could lead to disruptions in the functionality of contracts relying on these price feeds.
## Impact
- While the denial of service risk exists, it is dependent on the actions of Chainlink's multisig administrators and does not directly impact the integrity or security of the smart contract itself. 
- However, it is important to address this vulnerability to prevent potential disruptions in contract functionality and ensure a reliable user experience.
## Code Snippet
- The vulnerable code is located in the `PriceOracle.sol` contract. Specifically, the `getPriceFromChainlink()` function has a potential vulnerability that can lead to a denial-of-service scenario.
- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72
```solidity
function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
    (, int256 price, , , ) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
    require(price > 0, "invalid price");

    // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
    return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
}
```
## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
- To address this vulnerability and prevent potential denial-of-service scenarios, it is recommended to use a defensive approach with Solidity's try/catch structure when querying Chainlink price feeds. 
- This allows the caller contract to remain in control and handle any errors safely and explicitly.
```solidity
function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
    try registry.latestRoundData(base, quote) returns (, int256 price, , , ) {
        require(price > 0, "invalid price");

        // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
        return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
    } catch {
        // Handle the error gracefully
        revert("failed to fetch price");
    }
}

```