shaka

medium

# It is not checked whether the sequencer is down when fetching the price from Chainlink

## Summary

It is not checked whether the sequencer is down when fetching the price from Chainlink.

## Vulnerability Detail

The protocol is meant to be deployed in Arbitrum and Optimism. Chainlink's price feeds in layer 2 networks are updated through the sequencer, which can become unavailable.

The [Chainlink documentation](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/l2-sequencer-feeds) states the following regarding its use in layer 2 networks:

> To help your applications identify when the sequencer is unavailable, you can use a data feed that tracks the last known status of the sequencer at a given point in time. This helps you prevent mass liquidations by providing a grace period to allow customers to react to such an event.

The implementation of `PriceOracle.sol:getPriceFromChainlink()` lacks this validation, which can result in the protocol using an outdated price.

## Impact

If the sequencer in Arbitrum or Optimism goes down the oracle will return stale prices, which can result in undercollateralised loans being taken or positions being liquidated even though they are not undercollateralised.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/main/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72

## Tool used

Manual review

## Recommendation

Create a different version of `PriceOracle.sol` for layer 2 networks that checks whether the sequencer is down.

```solidity
function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
    checkSequencerUptime();

    (, int256 price,,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
    require(price > 0, "invalid price");

    // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
    return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
}

function checkSequencerUptime() internal view returns (bool) {
    (, int256 answer, uint256 startedAt,,) = sequencerUptimeFeed.latestRoundData();
    require(block.timestamp - startedAt > GRACE_PERIOD_TIME && answer == 0, "Sequencer is down");
}
```