R-Nemes

high

# No check of sequencer uptime

## Should check sequencer uptime when using L2s
## Impact
The sequencer plays a critical role in message transmission between L1 and L2. If the sequencer goes offline, messages cannot be transmitted from L1 to L2, resulting in a halt in L2 transactions. Instead, these messages are stored in the `CanonicalTransactionChain` (CTC) on L1, awaiting processing until the sequencer is operational again.

During this downtime, the processing of messages in the CTC follows a first-in, first-out order. Therefore, any transactions enqueued earlier will be processed before those that arrived later. However, there is a potential vulnerability that can be exploited.

If a validator's message on L1 is already enqueued in the CTC, the flag on the sequencer uptime feed on L2 will be flipped before any subsequent transactions are executed. This means that the transaction responsible for flipping the flag on the uptime feed will be prioritized over transactions that were enqueued after it.

This vulnerability has two notable impacts. First, it introduces a delay in message processing, as transactions are held until the sequencer resumes operation. Second, it allows a potential manipulation of transaction order, where an attacker could strategically enqueue their transaction before the sequencer comes back up to ensure it is executed before other transactions.

##  Vulnerability Detail
[Vulnerable code](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/main/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72)

```solidity
    function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
        (, int256 price,,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
        require(price > 0, "invalid price");

        // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
        return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
    }
```

## Tools Used
Manual review

## Recommendation
To mitigate the vulnerability described, it is recommended to implement a grace period verification mechanism in the code. The following code snippet can be used as a mitigation measure:
```solidity
	uint256 private constant GRACE_PERIOD_TIME = 3600;
	...
		
    function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
        (, int256 price,uint256 startedAt,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
        require(price > 0, "invalid price");
		
		// Make sure the grace period has passed after the
        // sequencer is back up.
        uint256 timeSinceUp = block.timestamp - startedAt;
        if (timeSinceUp <= GRACE_PERIOD_TIME) {
            revert GracePeriodNotOver();
        }

        // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
        return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
    }
```
The above code snippet checks the time elapsed since the sequencer has come back online by subtracting the "startedAt" timestamp from the current block timestamp. If the time since the sequencer's recovery is less than or equal to the predefined grace period time (GRACE_PERIOD_TIME), the code will revert with an error message indicating that the grace period is not yet over.

By enforcing this grace period verification, the code ensures that a certain amount of time has passed since the sequencer's restoration before allowing further execution. This delay acts as a protective measure, preventing immediate transaction processing and providing a window for the message queue to be processed in the expected order.

Implementing this recommended mitigation helps mitigate the vulnerability by introducing a time-based constraint that prevents transactions from being executed prematurely after the sequencer's recovery. It enhances the integrity of transaction ordering and reduces the risk of transaction manipulation during the message processing phase.