BenRai

high

# Chainlink Oracle will return wrong price if underlying aggregator hits minAnswer

## Summary
Chainlink aggregators have a build in circuit braker if the price of an asset gets out of a predetermined price band. If an asset experiences a huge drop in value (e.g. LUNA crash) the oracle will continue to return the minimum price and not the real price for the asset. This would allow users to deposit this asset into its market and borrow other tokens against it but at the wrong price. This is what happened to [Venus with BTC when LUNA crashed](https://rekt.news/venus-blizz-rekt/).  

 
## Vulnerability Detail
PriceOracel.sol uses the ChainlinkFeedRegistry to get the price of the requested token:


`/// @notice The Chainlink feed registry
    FeedRegistryInterface public immutable registry;`

To get the price of a token ` registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);` is called to request round data from it. Since ChainlinkAgregators have maxPrice and minPrice circuit braker build into them, if the asset drops below the minPrice the Iron Bank will still value the token with the minPrice even though in reality it is worth less. This enables users to deposit the token and borrow against it based on a the minPrice.

Example:
Token A has a minPrice of 1USD. The price of the token drops to 0,01 USD. The aggregator still returns 1USD allowing the user to deposit TokenA and pass the account liquidity check when borrowing TokenB.


## Impact
All assets in all markets of the Iron Bank can be drained

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L14
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L67


## Proof of Concept
[Venus “hack” with BTC when LUNA crashed](https://rekt.news/venus-blizz-rekt/).  

## Tool used
Manual Review


## Recommendation
When calling the chainlink aggregator the returned price should be checked against the minPrice and revert when the price is equal to the minPrice