Bauchibred

medium

# Lack of  Chainlink's `minAnswer/maxAnswer` Circuit Breaker Checks while Querying Prices in PriceOracle.sol

## Summary

The PriceOracle contract, while currently applying a safety check to ensure returned prices are greater than zero, which is commendable, as it effectively mitigates the risk of using negative prices, there should be an implementation to ensure the returned prices are not at the extreme boundaries (`minAnswer` and `maxAnswer`).
Without such a mechanism, the contract could operate based on incorrect prices, which could lead to an over- or under-representation of the asset's value, potentially causing significant harm to the protocol.

## Vulnerability Detail

Chainlink aggregators have a built in circuit breaker if the price of an asset goes outside of a predetermined price band. The result is that if an asset experiences a huge drop in value (i.e. LUNA crash) the price of the oracle will continue to return the minPrice instead of the actual price of the asset. This would allow user to continue borrowing with the asset but at the wrong price. This is exactly what happened to [Venus on BSC when LUNA imploded](https://rekt.news/venus-blizz-rekt/).

In its current form, the `getPriceFromChainlink` function within the PriceOracle contract retrieves the latest round data from the Chainlink Feed Registry. If the asset's market price plummets below `minAnswer` or skyrockets above `maxAnswer`, the returned price will still be `minAnswer` or `maxAnswer`, respectively, rather than the actual market price. This could potentially lead to an exploitation scenario where the protocol interacts with the asset using incorrect price information.

Take a look at [PriceOracle.sol#L60-L72](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L60-L72):

```solidity
function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
    (, int256 price,,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
    require(price > 0, "invalid price");

    // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
    return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
}
```

### Illustration:

Suppose TokenA has a minimum price set at $1. If the actual price of TokenA dips to $0.10, the aggregator continues to report $1 as the price. Consequently, users can interact with protocol using TokenA as though it were still valued at $1, which is a tenfold overestimate of its real market value.

## Impact

The potential for misuse arises when the actual price of an asset drastically changes but the oracle continues to operate using the `minAnswer` or `maxAnswer` as the asset's price. This situation might enable manipulative behaviours, such as borrowing excessive funds against an overvalued asset or selling undervalued assets, posing a risk to the protocol's financial stability.

## Code Snippet

[PriceOracle.sol#L60-L72](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/9ebf1702b2163b55479624794ab7999392367d2a/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L60-L72)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation


The `getPriceFromChainlink` function should be modified to include a validation check. If the returned price is equal to `minAnswer` or `maxAnswer`, the function should revert to avoid operating on potentially incorrect prices. This can be implemented as a case similarly to this:

```solidity
function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
    (, int256 price,,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
    require(price > 0, "invalid price");
    require(price > minAnswer && price < maxAnswer, "price outside valid range");

    // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
    return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
}
```

Please note, you will need to define `minAnswer` and `maxAnswer` according to your protocol's specifications.

Implementing this change will add an extra layer of security to your protocol, ensuring that price data used within the protocol falls within expected and reasonable boundaries, further reducing the risk of price manipulation and potential exploitation.

### Additional Information

Note that only Chainlink oracles are implemented in protocol's oracle system, which exarcebates this issue, cause it's often assumed that by pooling data from several oracles, issues like the one outlined above can be circumvented. However, this may not always hold true, as other oracles may have their own vulnerabilities that can be exploited. For instance, if the Chainlink oracle is used in tandem with a UniswapV3Oracle that employs a long-term time-weighted average price (TWAP), the system could be susceptible to manipulation when the TWAP hovers near the minimum price during a downturn. In such a situation, the value of the third oracle in the system is essentially negated due to the agreement between the prices provided by the Chainlink and UniswapV3 oracles. Furthermore, if other secondary oracles like Band are utilized, malicious actors could potentially launch distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on relayers to disrupt price updates, which is why a revert in any of the case from my pov should be the go to.
