shaka

medium

# Wrong price returned by oracle if asset's price drops below `minAnswer`

## Summary

Chainlink aggregators have a circuit breaker that activates when the price of an asset goes outside of a predetermined price range. As a consequence, if an asset undergoes a significant decline in value (such as the LUNA crash), the oracle's reported price will persistently reflect the minimum price rather than the true value of the asset.

## Vulnerability Detail

The [Chainlink documentation](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds#check-the-latest-answer-against-reasonable-limits) states:

> The data feed aggregator includes both minAnswer and maxAnswer values. These variables prevent the aggregator from updating the latestAnswer outside the agreed range of acceptable values, but they do not stop your application from reading the most recent answer.

> Configure your application to detect when the reported answer is close to reaching minAnswer or maxAnswer and issue an alert so you can respond to a potential market event. Separately, configure your application to detect and respond to extreme price volatility or prices that are outside of your acceptable limits.

This check is not performed in the Iron Bank's price oracle, which means that in extreme market conditions where the price of an asset drops drastically the oracle will return the configured minimum price rather than the true value of the asset.
This situation enables users to continue borrowing against the asset, albeit at an incorrect price. An incident of this nature occurred on the Binance Smart Chain (BSC) with Venus when LUNA experienced a severe collapse.

## Impact

The price returned by the oracle can be higher than the real price of the asset, which may result in undercollateralised loans being taken.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/main/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72

## Tool used

Manual review

## Recommendation

```diff
    function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
        (, int256 price,,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
--      require(price > 0, "invalid price");
++      require(price >= MIN_PRICE && price <= MAX_PRICE, "invalid price");
```