0x52

medium

# PriceOracle.sol will return the wrong price for asset if underlying aggregator hits minAnswer

## Summary

Chainlink aggregators have a built in circuit breaker if the price of an asset goes outside of a predetermined price band. The result is that if an asset experiences a huge drop in value (i.e. LUNA crash) the price of the oracle will continue to return the minPrice instead of the actual price of the asset. This would allow user to continue borrowing with the asset but at the wrong price. This is exactly what happened to [Venus on BSC when LUNA imploded](https://rekt.news/venus-blizz-rekt/).

## Vulnerability Detail

[OffchainAggregator.sol#L680-L684](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/libocr/blob/82b910bef5c1c95cc7a886091ccfc1895bde76f5/contract/OffchainAggregator.sol#L680-L684)

      int192 median = r.observations[r.observations.length/2];
      require(minAnswer <= median && median <= maxAnswer, "median is out of min-max range");
      r.hotVars.latestAggregatorRoundId++;
      s_transmissions[r.hotVars.latestAggregatorRoundId] =
        Transmission(median, uint64(block.timestamp));

ChainlinkAggregators have minPrice and maxPrice circuit breakers built into them. This prevents the aggregator from updating the price below the minPrice specified at contract creation.

[PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/main/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72)

    function getPriceFromChainlink(address base, address quote) internal view returns (uint256) {
        (, int256 price,,,) = registry.latestRoundData(base, quote);
        require(price > 0, "invalid price");

        // Extend the decimals to 1e18.
        return uint256(price) * 10 ** (18 - uint256(registry.decimals(base, quote)));
    }

registry#latestRoundData pulls the associated aggregator and requests round data from it. This means that if the price of the asset drops below the minPrice, the protocol will continue to value the token at minPrice instead of it's actual value. This will allow users to take out huge amounts of bad debt and bankrupt the protocol.

Example:
TokenA has a minPrice of $1. The price of TokenA drops to $0.10. The aggregator still returns $1 allowing the user to borrow against TokenA as if it is $1 which is 10x it's actual value. 

## Impact

In the event that an asset crashes (i.e. LUNA) the protocol can be manipulated to give out loans at an inflated price

## Code Snippet

[PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/main/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol#L66-L72)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Pull minAnswer from the aggregator and revert it price == minAnswer