Angry_Mustache_Man

medium

# PriceOracle will return the wrong price for asset if underlying aggregator hits minPrice

## Summary
Chainlink aggregators are equipped with a circuit breaker feature that activates when the price of an asset exceeds a predefined price range. In cases where an asset undergoes a substantial decline in value, such as a crash involving LUNA, the oracle's price feed will consistently report the minimum price instead of reflecting the actual price of the asset. Consequently, this situation enables users to continue borrowing against the asset, albeit at an inaccurate price that does not align with its true market value.This is exactly what happened to [Venus on BSC when LUNA imploded](https://rekt.news/venus-blizz-rekt/).
## Vulnerability Detail
PriceOracle uses the ChainlinkFeedRegistry to obtain the price of the requested tokens. The function ChainlinkFeedRegistry#latestRoundData retrieves data from the connected aggregator by making a request for round data. ChainlinkAggregators are designed with circuit breakers, specifically minPrice and maxPrice, which serve as protective measures. In the event that the price of an asset falls below the defined minPrice, the protocol will persistently value the token at minPrice instead of its true value. This situation can potentially enable users to borrow significant amounts of debt against the asset, even though its actual value is lower, leading to a scenario where the protocol becomes burdened with substantial bad debt and may face the risk of bankruptcy.

Example:
Let's consider the example of TokenA, which has a designated minPrice of $1. However, due to market conditions, the price of TokenA plummets to $0.10. Despite this significant drop, the aggregator continues to provide a price feed of $1 for TokenA. As a result, users are able to borrow against TokenA based on its artificially inflated value of $1, which is actually ten times higher than its true market value of $0.10.

## Impact
If an asset experiences a crash, such as LUNA, it opens up the possibility of manipulating the protocol to issue loans at an inflated price. This means that malicious actors can exploit the situation to borrow assets from the protocol at prices that are artificially higher than their actual market value.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ironbank/blob/main/ib-v2/src/protocol/oracle/PriceOracle.sol?plain=1#L42-#L58
## Tool used

Manual Review,
Reference finding : https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-blueberry-judging/issues/18

## Recommendation
PriceOracle should check the returned price against the `minPrice & maxPrice` and revert if the answer is outside of the bounds: Add this line of code under `registry.latestRoundData` after setting `minPrice & maxPrice`

    if (answer >= maxPrice or answer <= minPrice) revert();